>> Sreenivasan: WHEN THE U.S.
SENATE FELL SHORT THIS WEEK OF
THE REPUBLICANS' GOAL TO REPEAL
THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT, IT LEFT
THE A.C.A. IN PLACE, AT LEAST
FOR NOW.
AND TODAY ON TWITTER, PRESIDENT
TRUMP SEEMED TO THREATEN THOSE
LAWMAKERS AND INSURANCE
COMPANIES, SAYING:
"IF A NEW HEALTHCARE BILL IS NOT
APPROVED QUICKLY, BAILOUTS FOR
INSURANCE COMPANIES AND BAILOUTS
FOR MEMBERS OF CONGRESS WILL END
VERY SOON!"
THE PRESIDENT MIGHT HAVE BEEN
REFERRING TO COST SHARING
REDUCTION PAYMENTS, WHICH LOWER
THE AMOUNT INDIVIDUALS HAVE TO
PAY FOR DEDUCTIBLES, CO-PAYMENTS
AND INSURANCE.
CURRENTLY, OBAMACARE PROVIDES
INSURANCE TO 12 MILLION PEOPLE
THROUGH PRIVATE POLICIES
PURCHASED ON EXCHANGES.
BUT SOME OF THE EXCHANGES HAVE
SEEN INSURERS LIKE AETNA,
ANTHEM, CIGNA, AND HUMANA, PULL
OUT.
THAT TREND, ACCORDING TO THE
"NEW YORK TIMES," REUTERS AND
KAISER HEALTH NEWS, COULD LEAVE
THREE MILLION PEOPLE IN MORE
THAN 1,300 COUNTIES WITH ONLY
ONE OBAMACARE-PARTICIPATING
INSURER NEXT YEAR.
45 OR MORE COUNTIES COULD HAVE
NONE.
FOR MORE, I AM JOINED FROM
WASHINGTON BY MARY AGNES CAREY
OF KAISER HEALTH NEWS.
HOW DID WE GET TO THIS
SITUATION?
YOU KNOW, THE PRESIDENT LIKES TO
DESCRIBE IT AS OBAMACARE
IMPLODING.
BUT WE'RE CLEARLY SEEING THAT
THERE'S A DISPARITY IN HOW MUCH
CHOICE CONSUMERS HAVE WHEN THEY
GO TO THESE EXCHANGES.
>> INSURERS HAVE BEEN VERY
CONCERNED ABOUT THE UNCERTAINTY
AROUND THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
AS YOU MENTIONED, THERE'S BEEN A
LOT OF DISCUSSION ON CAPITOL
HILL ABOUT REPEALING AND
REPLACING THE LAW.
THAT FELL APART THIS WEEK IN THE
SENATE.
THERE'S BEEN CONCERN ABOUT
WHETHER OR NOT THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION WOULD FUND THESE
COST-SHARING SUBSIDIES THAT HELP
LOW-INCOME PEOPLE WITH THEIR
OUT-OF-POCKET COSTS.
AND THERE'S ALSO BEEN CONCERN
FROM INSURERS ABOUT TOUGH
ENFORCEMENT OF THE INDIVIDUAL
MANDATE, THIS REQUIREMENT THAT
MOST AMERICANS HAVE INSURANCE
OR PAY A FINE.
SO WHEN YOU LOOK AT THAT
COLLECTIVELY, INSURERS ARE
GETTING WORRIED, AND SOME ARE
DECIDING NOT TO GO INTO SOME
MARKETS OR LEAVE OTHER MARKETS
OR RAISE THEIR PRICES TO TRY TO
COMPENSATE FOR THAT UNCERTAINTY.
>> Sreenivasan: I REMEMBER
WHEN THE A.C.A. FIRST PASSED,
ONE OF THE BIG, SORT OF
COMPROMISES TO THE INSURANCE
INDUSTRY WAS SAYING, "HEY, THIS
INDIVIDUAL MANDATE WILL BE IN
PLACE.
EVERYONE WILL HAVE TO HAVE
INSURANCE.
SO YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO FIND NEW
CUSTOMERS."
>> RIGHT.
BUT THE THOUGHT HAS BEEN ALSO
THAT HAS BEEN THE OPPORTUNITY
FOR THE INSURERS, AND THEY HAVE
GOTTEN IN, BUT THEY KNEW
INITIALLY, THE SICKEST PEOPLE
WOULD COME IN FIRST.
THEY HAVE BEEN VERY, VERY
EXPENSIVE.
AND THEN THERE'S ALSO BEEN
ONGOING CONCERN ABOUT THE PRICE
OF THE PREMIUMS.
SOME PEOPLE HAVE OPTED, RATHER,
NOT TO ENROLL AND SIMPLY PAY
THAT INDIVIDUAL MANDATE PENALTY.
SO THE INDIVIDUAL MANDATE, OF
COURSE, WE KNOW HAS BEEN A
LIGHTNING ROD ON CAPITOL HILL.
REPUBLICANS HATE IT.
THEY SAY AMERICANS SHOULDN'T BE
REQUIRED TO PURCHASE INSURANCE
OR BE TOLD WHAT INSURANCE TO
BUY.
SO IT HAS BEEN A FOCAL POINT OF
THIS EVER SINCE THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT WAS CREATED.
>> Sreenivasan: INSURANCE
COMPANIES ARE ALSO RESPONSIBLE
TO THEIR SHAREHOLDERS.
THEY'RE THINKING A COUPLE OF
YEARS OUT.
IN THE PAST COUPLE OF YEARS
WE'VE SEEN THEM START TO MAKE
MOVES REGARDLESS OF WHO WAS
GOING TO WIN THIS WHITE HOUSE.
>> YOU KNOW, THEY LOOKED AT THE
MARKET, AS YOU MENTIONED, SOME
ARE IN, AND SOME ARE OUT.
AND AGAIN, WE GET BACK TO THE
UNCERTAINTY.
IS THIS A MARKETPLACE WHERE THEY
WANT TO BE?
WILL THIS MARKETPLACE BE
SUPPORTED BY THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION?
WILL THE RULES AND REGULATIONS
OF THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT BE
IMPLEMENTED AND OVERSEEN BY THE
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION, AND THAT
HAS JUST BEEN AT THE FOCAL POINT
OF THIS ENTIRE THING, WHERE THE
INSURERS ARE INVOLVED.
>> Sreenivasan: WELL, WHAT ABOUT
MEDICAID EXPANSION OR AT LEAST
THE SUBSIDIES, AND HOW MUCH THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT OR ANY SORT
OF A REPLACEMENT WILL PAY?
WHAT CAN THE INSURANCE COMPANIES
EXPECT?
>> WELL, RIGHT NOW, SINCE THINGS
HAVE FALLEN APART ABOUT THIS ON
CAPITOL HILL, THE MEDICAID
EXPANSION, WHICH 31 STATES
EMBRACED, IS STILL THERE.
SO THEY COULD STILL COUNT ON
THAT ENROLLMENT.
AND FOR NOW, THE SUBSIDIES
THAT, AS YOU MENTIONED EARLIER,
FUND ABOUT EIGHT OUT OF TEN
BENEFICIARIES, ARE STILL THERE.
THE KEY POINT ON THE SUBSIDY
ISSUE IS THIS COST SHARING
SUBSIDY.
THAT IS THE SUBSIDY THAT HELPS
ABOUT SEVEN MILLION ENROLLEES
WITH THEIR OUT-OF-POCKET COSTS.
AND INSURERS ARE VERY WORRIED
THAT THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
MIGHT STOP FUNDING THAT.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT SORT OF
ACTIONS CAN BE TAKEN FOR, WHAT
ARE CALLED THESE "BARE"
COUNTIES, WHERE BASICALLY THERE
ARE NOW CURRENTLY NO INSURERS ON
THE EXCHANGES, OR AS THOSE
COUNTIES GROW IN NUMBER?
>> THERE ARE A VARIETY OF
PROPOSALS THAT COULD BE
EMBRACED.
CLAIRE McCASKILL, A DEMOCRATIC
SENATOR FROM MISSOURI, HAS A
PLAN THAT SAYS IF YOU'RE IN A
BARE COUNTY, YOU SHOULD BE ABLE
TO BUY HEALTH INSURANCE ON THE
SAME EXCHANGE HERE IN THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, WHERE
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS BUY
COVERAGE.
THERE IS ALSO A VARIETY OF
PROPOSALS OUT THERE TO TRY TO
HELP INSURERS WITH THEIR HIGH-
COST CASES.
THIS IS CALLED REINSURANCE.
THAT PROGRAM EXISTED FOR THREE
YEARS.
IT'S GOING AWAY IN 2018.
YOU HAVE MEMBERS ON BOTH SIDES
OF THE AISLE TALKING ABOUT THAT.
AND THE THOUGHT IS, IF YOU STEP
IN AND TRY TO HELP WITH THOSE
HIGH-COST CASES, THAT PREMIUMS
COULD BE REDUCED.
BUT WE ALSO HAVE TO REMEMBER
THOSE BROADER BILLS FROM
REPUBLICANS IN THE HOUSE AND THE
SENATE, ALL INCLUDED MONEY FOR
STATE MARKETS TO TRY TO HELP
THESE INSURERS.
SO IT'S KIND OF A MOVING TARGET
AT THIS POINT.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
MARY AGNES CAREY OF "KAISER
HEALTH NEWS," THANKS SO MUCH FOR
JOINING US.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.